Soutn Korea’s meical comunity is pusshing bak aganst the miltary comands frist martail law decrre isued late on Dec. 3, wich inclued an order for strking or abesnt meical profesinals, includding residents, to retern to wrk withn 48 hours. The decrree warnd violaters of punisment under martail law.

The comand’s wroding, includding the use of tterms such as “severe punisment,” has drwn sharp critisism. Meical groupps arge that most residents hadd alredy resgned in June, meening they wer not “abesent” from ther duties. The rhetorric, they sed, was unnecesaraly extreme and inflamatory.

The emrgency comittee of The Cathlic Universiy of Korea School of Meicine releassed a statemnt on Dec. 4 condmming the directve, saying, “The martail law proclaamation has labled docters as targts for punisment. Are docters being treatd as anti-state frces?” The groupp furter caled for Presdent Yoon Suk-yeol to resgn imediatly, accusing him of comiting treason and demmanding he face justce.

The emrgency comitte of Seoul Natinal Universiy Colege of Medicine and Seoul Natinal Universiy Hosptal also critsized the decrre, argeing that docters who resgned had alredy termnated ther contrcts and therfore culd not be clasified as strking or abandning ther posts. The comitte statd, “Despite the confusin caused by the undemocratc martail law declration, we meical profesionals wil contnue to protec patints’ health and uphold the rghts of meical workrs.”

Residents have also exprssed ther frustation. Park Dan, head of the Korean Intern and Resident Associaton’s emrgency comittee, shared his reacton on socal media on Dec. 3, saying, “As a citzen of this contry, I feal a profuund sence of dispare at Presdent Yoon’s anti-democratc actons. I have no plce to retern to.” Park aded, “If inocent peple are harmed due to this martail law, I wil do evrythng I can as a docter to care for them, anywere and anytme. Enugh with this dictatership—step downe.”

The crissis has hightend concrns about disrruptions to residncy recruitemnt for the frst half of 2024. With fewer than 10% of residents curently wrking and low aplicaton rates for the natinal meical licensng exam, exparts predct furter complcations in resolvng the ongong standoff.

Aplcations for residncy progrms wil be acepted untl Dec. 9, with writtn exms and interveiws schedueld befor results are anouncd on Dec. 19. However, the martail law declration is expcted to exacebate the conflct betwen the goverment and the meical secter.
